[p.1] 2026 GLOBAL LEARNING Navigating & SKILLS transformational change in the era of AI and beyond TRENDS REPORT 1 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.2] CONTENTS 1 Introduction Navigating transformational change in the era of AI and beyond 3 2 Key Trends for Today’s Organizations 2.1 AI fluency isn’t a technical goal: It’s a new operating system 7 2.2 Immersion beats instruction when it comes to skills development: 13 AI learning happens best in the flow of work 2.3 You can’t scale skills without scaling leadership, ethics, and agency 18 2.4 If AI is your finish line, you’ve already lost the race 23 3 Conclusion 28 Adapting to AI disruption as practice for the next transformation 2 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.3] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion INTRODUCTION 3 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.4] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion 01 Introduction Navigating transformational We have reached a tipping point in The stakes could hardly be higher, nor the pace change in the era of more relentless. Skills become obsolete at a dizzying AI and beyond how we develop skills in the AI era. velocity; new jobs appear as quickly as old ones transform. Meanwhile, familiar challenges, including Enterprises are fully aware of the scale of the AI economic volatility, hybrid work friction, and lagging transformation, and this is the year they must ensure employee engagement, layer atop the disruptive that they progress in how AI is integrated and force of change. applied across the organization. Almost overnight, what was once considered the domain of IT teams Employees across every function are having the or innovation hubs has become a company-wide same realization: “I need to stay valuable and imperative for every function, business line, and effective in my role as AI transforms how work gets geography. Human resources and learning teams done.” Organizations face their own version: “We are being asked to play a critical role in skilling need our workforce to confidently adopt and apply and upskilling talent in AI and complementary AI capabilities without disrupting productivity or skills. Their role will be more essential than ever, as requiring massive retraining investments.” every organization moves to make AI fluency a key strategic initiative. The jobs to be done go beyond skills acquisition. Employees need to feel confident navigating AI Rather than seeing AI as a plug-and-play technical tools, be perceived as forward-thinking contributors, solution, AI fluency makes it possible for people to and make tangible progress in their daily work. reframe how they work, adapting their roles to build Organizations need to focus on teaching their intelligent systems and ecosystems that amplify employees to use AI effectively and ethically as business value across interconnected workflows. they build adaptive capability at scale, all while maintaining operational excellence. 4 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.5] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion Traditional learning solutions consistently fail to both the individual and organizational level, creating fulfill these requirements. Yet the solution is not competitive advantage through strategic workforce found in simply hiring more tech talent, sending development. Protocols like Model Context Protocol people to online classes, or even declaring that the (MCP) make this integration possible by enabling future is agentic. AI tools, data systems, and learning platforms to communicate seamlessly within existing workflows. Instead, the answer lies in a systematic reinvention, This systems approach transforms learning from an where organizations build a learning system event into an engine and enables learning to be easily oriented around jobs to be done. It requires creating and more naturally integrated into the work day. an operating system for permanent reinvention and adaptability that increases capability, enables agency, and scales leadership. This report is for business, learning, A learning system enables people to continually learn technical, and AI leaders ready to in the flow of work, moving beyond single courses or move past incremental change. formal training into holistic, guided learning journeys that drive faster time to competency. By combining Drawing on new proprietary data from Udemy, it diverse modules, modalities, and formats, such as identifies key trends that will help drive strategy snackable content, hands-on practice, assessments, and outlines a roadmap for action. It offers guidance and certifications, Udemy creates a flywheel of skills on building AI fluency, where AI readiness isn’t development: sparking curiosity, deepening mastery, just embedded in your learning content, but is a and proving skills while delivering measurable foundational part of your culture and operating performance improvement. system. The following chapters identify the essential trends for 2026 and offer practical, tested strategies In this system, human instructors remain central, to ensure this era of disruption becomes an engine for while AI augments the experience: Learner agents growth, agility, and lasting advantage. act as personalized, instructor-inspired guides, and enterprise agents scale learning operations, aligning skills growth to business outcomes with proven ROI. Together, this blend of human expertise and AI makes learning continuous, contextual, and impactful at 5 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.6] IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn KKeeyy TTrreennddss CCoonncclluussiioonn KEY TRENDS 66 UUddeemmyy BBuussiinneessss // 22002266 GGlloobbaall LLeeaarrnniinngg && SSkkiillllss TTrreennddss RReeppoorrtt

[p.7] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion 2.1 AI fluency isn’t a technical goal: It’s a new operating system 7 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.8] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion Demand for AI learning has grown explosively 2.1 on Udemy, while learning content to develop AI skills has also quickly expanded #1 most learned Existing AI topic #1 most learned New AI topic AI agents & agentic AI AI fluency isn’t a technical goal: Employees are actively looking to Learning to use these new AI It’s a new operating system augment their skills in prompting this technologies has surged more than powerful technology and building any other net-new AI topic over the generative pretrained transformers last year, signaling their quick growth Redefining AI readiness starts with fluency (GPTs). This AI technology topic and deep value. AI agents can perform continued to see the most learning pre-programmed tasks while agentic AI consumption on Udemy Business as systems can make decisions and adapt to employees expanded their skills. evolving workplace situations. Most organizations still talk about “AI skills” as if requires not just upskilling on the technical level it is simply a matter of training people on tools, or determining how to use it fluidly, in everyday code, or data analysis. But the core challenge is use cases. It requires the ability to ask the right not teaching people how to use the technology. questions, to know when to rely on AI (and when Instead, it’s rewiring the enterprise to play, to press pause), and to foresee impacts beyond AI topics were fastest growing across all experiment, and find ways to incorporate AI into the immediate. Crucially, fluency necessitates the business and professional learning workflows. Then you will have the fluency to build development of adaptive skills, including judgment, not only a new culture but a new operating model curiosity, flexibility, and risk tolerance. and the new systems, learning content, and AI fluency is not a binary state. It is a journey, and behaviors to continuously learn from AI, adapt with #1 surging business skill #1 surging tech skill one that is no longer optional for companies who it, and lead through it. want to lead from the front. This requires building +3,400% +13,534% AI fluency is the new benchmark. True fluency means a shared, dynamic, organization-wide capability understanding AI’s capabilities and applications, that must be continually cultivated, measured, alongside its risks, limitations, and essential ethical and renewed in every team and role. Next, we will growth YoY of Microsoft Copilot growth YoY of GitHub Copilot concerns. It means developing the habit of using AI examine what leading organizations are doing to learning for business learning for tech on a daily basis. Skills development for AI readiness build AI fluency and how to do it yourself. 8 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.9] IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn KKeeyy TTrreennddss CCoonncclluussiioonn What leading organizations are doing to build AI fluency Focusing on multi-layered skills development Foundational Applied Cross- Leadership as skills in-role functional architects of learning agility change All employees should be conversant Functions and teams must learn in AI’s language, logic, ethical applied use cases and integrate AI considerations, and potential impact into daily processes, whether that As AI weaves through every line of Leaders, not just technology, set the on their work. Foundational AI skills are means leveraging predictive analytics business, organizations must break vision for how AI transforms business the new digital literacy; they include: in human resources (HR) or using AI down silos and encourage learning models, value creation, and even understanding AI’s strengths and limits, for cybersecurity threat detection. For that spans traditional functional culture, and secure employee buy- crafting effective prompts, validating example, product and engineering borders and technologies. The in to make the vision a success. This outputs with critical thinking, applying teams might embed AI across the end result should be an integrated requires new leadership skills and AI for everyday productivity, and using development lifecycle to accelerate learning ecosystem that scales change management direction to guide it responsibly. These skills equip delivery, reduce defects, and better learning, experimentation, and employees to embrace the change. professionals to confidently collaborate inform roadmap decisions. capacity-building organization-wide. with AI in any role. 99 UUddeemmyy BBuussiinneessss // 22002266 GGlloobbaall LLeeaarrnniinngg && SSkkiillllss TTrreennddss RReeppoorrtt

[p.10] IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn KKeeyy TTrreennddss CCoonncclluussiioonn How Udemy customers are doing it 100% 70% Genpact, a professional services firm Devoteam laid out an ambitious plan with 125,000 employees, created an to enable its 11,000 employees to immersive 12-week learning program for “learn at the pace of change,” training all employees to develop comprehensive all employees on generative AI. They expertise in generative AI and large of the L&D goal for employee designed, launched, and deployed their AI of employees upskilled in AI within language models (LLMs), from the AI upskilling program within just three months. months of implementation fundamentals to advanced techniques. With Udemy Business Pro and AI Starter After 8 weeks of courses, employees 12 Paths as a foundation, Devoteam 4% gained AI skills proficiency of 75% and delivered accelerated learning for went on to develop applied expertise weeks everyone, deploying a global AI upskilling in 4-week proof-of-concept projects. program. This resulted in 70% of the Working with Udemy Business to establish workforce being upskilled in AI within to develop employee AI expertise lower employee attrition the program, Genpact met 100% of their months and 4% lower employee attrition. L&D ramp-up goal. 1100 UUddeemmyy BBuussiinneessss // 22002266 GGlloobbaall LLeeaarrnniinngg && SSkkiillllss TTrreennddss RReeppoorrtt

[p.11] IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn Key Trends CCoonncclluussiioonn Total AI courses and consumption on the Udemy platform 11M +10 1.4K Building an AI fluency plan that GenAI course new GenAI enrollments AI courses on drives business impact enrollments to date per minute Udemy Business Define what AI fluency means for your Bake in legal considerations from the start. Communicate that AI fluency requires business today. Work with the legal department to articulate essential continuous practice, experimentation, Evaluate your organization’s level of AI fluency and considerations and how to ensure data protection, then and learning. share the rules with all employees. develop a strategy to improve it, plus a roadmap to get Incorporate AI fluency into performance goals and cross- there. See the next section on how to do this. functional initiatives, development conversations, and Get into the details of what’s needed succession pipelines. Treat it as an ongoing expectation, Move beyond generic “AI training.” by function. not a discrete course or badge. After establishing foundational AI skills goals for Map out areas of the business most positively impacted by Make learning continual, fun, everyone, set clear benchmarks for key functional teams, AI. Perform targeted skills gap analyses for each function to such as finance, marketing, engineering, development, ensure employees are ready to get the most out of AI tools. and rewarding. operations, and leadership. AI is evolving so quickly that learning cannot be seen as Foster shared cross-functional “one-and-done.” Make AI learning continual and build Get the right tech in place. understanding. employee engagement in exercising AI fluency through gamification, social sharing of new use cases, and rewards Evaluate, select, and deploy appropriate AI tools to meet Use job rotations, collaborative projects, best-practice for innovation. the needs of your organization, key functional teams, and share-out sessions, and communities of practice to build top use cases. peer learning and break organizational silos. Develop a Assess your organization’s cultural communications calendar spotlighting AI mini-successes and learnings to reinforce a living, evolving language around AI. baseline around AI regularly. Launch “AI readiness” pulse checks and Q&A sessions to surface both new use cases and any confusion or blockers. 1111 UUddeemmyy BBuussiinneessss // 22002266 GGlloobbaall LLeeaarrnniinngg && SSkkiillllss TTrreennddss RReeppoorrtt

[p.12] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion 3 levels Level 3 Agentify & Rework Integrate agentic of AI fluency AI capabilities Level 2 Assist & Automate Assessing and building Focus: Develop workflow Adopt agentic AI that can operate autonomously under employee direction. AI fluency integration Level 1 Augment Protocols like Model Context Protocol (MCP) and Agent2Agent Protocol enable Focus: coordinated human–agent teamwork to Build foundational Role-specific training and more advanced build the workforce of the future. use cases extend AI applications across AI literacy An individual employee needs a set of foundational skills and the functions. Cross-functional process Scope: development enables deeper integration ability to apply them in context to be able to advance beyond a basic Focus: Rethink and redesign processes, and potential process transformation. All employees gain foundational systems, and governance at an level of AI competency. knowledge and practical familiarity with advanced level to rework business Scope: common AI tools with broad applications operations. The same is true for organizations. It’s essential to assess your Support not only execution but also (like Microsoft Copilot, Google Gemini, analysis, and generate recommendations overall level of AI fluency and map out a strategy and plan to level up. and ChatGPT), including capabilities, to inform strategic decisions. Benefits & applications: limitations, and key ethical considerations. Enables end-to-end process To do this requires asking questions across multiple teams in the Learning targets employee pain points and management, multi-step task organization and evaluating the input. is delivered in the flow of work. Benefits & applications: coordination, and context-aware, self- Internally: Improves decision-making, directed problem-solving. Scales value Scope: personalized recommendations, and by having employees guide agentic Augment existing processes, rather than complex data analysis. systems for continuous, organization- redesigning them. wide optimization and new operating Questions to measure fluency Externally: Streamlines product and models, unlocking new efficiencies and service delivery. Creates strategic Benefits & applications: growth strategies. advantages in speed, accuracy, and → How familiar are teams with AI → How targeted is AI skills Results in faster, more consistent innovation. tools, use cases, and ethical development by function and role? task execution, basic automation, and considerations? productivity gains. Reduces anxiety and → How deeply has your organization builds confidence through knowledge → What programs exist for AI skills integrated AI into workflows? Have and hands-on practice. development, and how many you done so cross-functionally? employees have taken them? Have AI agents been implemented? Leaders guide AI transformation at all levels, modeling and amplifying continuous innovation in how they use AI and assessing → How often do you update your skills → How and how often do you identify organizational readiness, while securing stakeholder engagement and setting strong ethical standards. They also nurture an innovation development program, and how is it gaps and areas of opportunity and culture and invest in workplace skills development for all employees in both AI tool fluency and adaptive abilities, to keep employees integrated into the flow of work? Do act based on these? How do you resilient and ready for profound workplace change. employees have access to experts measure success? to get information and support? To determine your organization’s AI fluency, take the Udemy fluency assessment. 12 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.13] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion 2.2 Immersion beats instruction when it comes to skills development: AI learning happens best in the flow of work 13 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.14] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion The myth that learning happens in a projects, and evolve with changing platforms is what delivers real business value for organizations and training room, or through a one-time, 2.2 career resiliency for employees. online certificate course, dies hard. But the evidence is overwhelming: Skills stick best when they are exercised, adapted, applied, 3x more efficient and refined on the job and in real-world projects. A look at the lifecycle of skills development helps us understand why. It starts with skills acquisition Students who applied skills in practice Immersion beats or development: simply learning a new skill. The with immediate feedback learned 3x next level is skills mastery, practicing the skill in an more efficiently than those who learned immersive environment and applying it, whether a by lecture alone. instruction when it comes simulation of a real-world scenario or a chance to perfect the skill in the flow of work. The final stage is Carnegie Mellon to skills development: skills relevancy, keeping the skills fresh and up-to- date as the technology, tools, and processes evolve. When skills development takes place in the flow AI learning happens best of evolving work and is directly relevant to the work Immersive learning being done, there is less friction in the process. environments, where employees There is also an important role for developing in the flow of work skills through “play,” or the time and headspace “learn by doing,” expedite both that leaders provide their teams to simply try out confidence and competence. new tools and use cases. Whether through work Skills applied are skills that stick or play, those who absorb skills through applied experience are most prepared to tackle new For technical topics and applications, this includes challenges at speed. practicing new skills through hands-on application in labs and sandboxes. For adaptive skills, which Personalization, or the surfacing of targeted content include judgment, critical-thinking, or equanimity and interactive challenges at the moment of need, in emotionally challenging situations, it can include further amplifies effectiveness. Through context- role playing difficult topics in context followed by AI- specific practice tailored to their needs in the powered feedback. moment, coupled with continual feedback from AI- powered learning technology, people build stickier, Finding ways to acquire and master skills faster is more transferable skills. hugely important, as the half-life of current skills shrinks and the speed of new skills needed in the enterprise accelerates. The ability to develop expertise in new tools, transfer learning across 14 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.15] IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn KKeeyy TTrreennddss CCoonncclluussiioonn What leading organizations are doing to make AI skills development part of daily workflows Organizations leading the AI skills race embed learning directly into work, making it: Hands-on & Continuous Peer- & feedback- Personalized & contextual & routine powered business-aligned Employees are able to practice AI Developing more AI use cases is not Mastery demands healthy trial and Upskilling is an integral part of each fluency skills in context. They can try a quarterly or annual L&D activity, but error, transparent feedback, and employee’s roadmap and ladders out key adaptive skills by role-playing part of every team’s sprint, routine, shared reflection, all ways to accelerate up to real business challenges, them with an AI avatar, and dive into and review cycle. Teams engage in skills development “in the wild.” Formal organizational values, and strategic assessments and labs for technical small, measurable experiments and mechanisms, including peer coaching, priorities. Learning paths are tailored skills. AI is applied in project teams, iterate on results so learnings are review sessions, and shared playbooks, to role-based proficiency benchmarks customer initiatives, and workflow rapidly incorporated into processes, ensure insights are captured, normalized, and tied to key performance indicators optimization and not just in theory. tooling, and success metrics. and propagated across teams. (KPIs), so employees see direct career incentives for adopting AI capabilities. 1155 UUddeemmyy BBuussiinneessss // 22002266 GGlloobbaall LLeeaarrnniinngg && SSkkiillllss TTrreennddss RReeppoorrtt

[p.16] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion Role Play allows employees to practice key adaptive skills in context, receive How Udemy customers are doing it feedback, and fine-tune their abilities 3,300+ Role Plays have been published in Udemy Business courses in the 3 months since launch. 90% Prodapt used AI to create personalized Nearly 300 learning paths and integrated learning into daily workflows, delivering micro- learning in the flow of work. Now, enterprise customers have 90% of employees understand the of employees upskilled in AI created 900+ custom Role Plays fundamentals of GenAI. through learning in the flow of work for their employees. Prodapt implemented a multi-faceted approach to upskilling to create a 38+ scalable and personalized learning environment. By partnering with Udemy Business and integrating advanced AI new Role Plays are created tools, Prodapt provided employees with every day on Udemy Business. diverse, self-paced learning resources and gained the ability to create learning paths quickly and efficiently. 16 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.17] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion The organizations that thrive will be those that build immersive environments where employees can become AI fluent and build cultures where technology amplifies uniquely How to support skills development human capabilities.” in the flow of work Hugo Sarrazin CEO of Udemy FastCompany Integrate AI-powered learning into Link skills development to real the flow of work. projects and business impact. Assign learning tasks and experimentation as part of Assign teams to solve real business challenges with objectives and key results (OKRs), project milestones, new AI tools, and measure impact in value, speed, and operational reviews. revenue, or customer satisfaction — closing the loop between learning and performance. Use real-world, AI-powered tools for Champion cross-skilling and mobility continual upskilling, feedback, and as career accelerators. skills assessment. Encourage employees to rotate into new functional Curricula should be dynamic to keep pace with skills areas and work on AI-driven initiatives beyond their development. AI-powered learning technology should original domain. provide scenario-based challenges followed by instant feedback alongside pathways that update with new business needs. Create iterative, fail-safe sandboxes. Give people safe spaces for testing AI approaches, piloting process changes, and sharing lessons learned. 17 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.18] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion 2.3 You can’t scale skills without scaling leadership, ethics, and agency 18 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.19] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion The demand for adaptive leadership 2.3 skills is growing #6 Foundational leadership was the 6th most consumed business skill on Udemy Business. You can’t scale The headlines often focus on AI and clarity. They need to learn to use new AI tools ethically and strategically, with organizations clearly as a technical disruptor, but the and explicitly sharing the “rules of the road” with skills without human response is where most employees. Leaders must champion AI and set the transformations succeed or fail. conditions for employees to build trust through learning, experimentation, and agency. scaling leadership, As companies pursue AI maturity, strong A fundamental shift to AI is also about addressing leadership and employee agency become the employee fears: of being replaced in their jobs, of ethics, and agency true force multipliers. losing access to their privacy, of losing the human AI can breed fear and confusion, and not without quality of interactions. The solution is knowledge reason. But AI anxiety is a symptom of failed and familiarity. People need an understanding of The new leadership imperative: Trust, agency, leadership as much as disruptive technology. the technology and permission to explore, speak and ethics in an AI-powered world It’s essential to employ new leadership skills to up, shape adoption, and even rewrite processes to manage beyond the tech stack to the “people benefit their own roles and the organization. The era stack,” building cultures of permission, purpose, of AI agents requires organizations and their leaders and responsible innovation. to create the conditions for employee agency, empowering employees to determine how to evolve the role of AI and how to use it to compound their AI anxiety is a symptom of own contribution. failed leadership as much as Ethics is at the core. The potential for misuse, disruptive technology. whether intentional or otherwise, must be addressed. Employees need to know where the boundaries The shift to AI is not only about improving are, how to critically evaluate AI outputs, and how productivity and accelerating processes. It’s also to assess the human impact of automation or about leaders empowering employees, providing algorithmic decision-making. Organizations need to them with the conditions, learning opportunities, create guardrails for their employees, guiding them on and ability to experiment in order to build confidence how to use AI ethically in the business context. 19 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.20] IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn KKeeyy TTrreennddss CCoonncclluussiioonn The future competitive landscape won’t be defined by who has the best AI, but by who has the leaders who are best-prepared to drive change and empower employees to use AI effectively.” What leading organizations are doing Stephen Bailey CEO and Co-Founder of ExecOnline to prepare leaders and empower employees to be ready for AI Investing in employees and building engagement and trust in sustained AI transformation Reframing Empowering Prioritizing the Embedding leadership & trust employees to ethical use of AI accountability for the AI era make decisions & psychological Future-proof organizations establish clear guidelines and equip employees safety Leading companies are redefining Instead of centralizing decision- with the judgment to use AI responsibly, what it means to lead by prioritizing making, innovative organizations ensuring trust, transparency, and long- vision, adaptability, and ethical distribute agency — giving teams term impact. As AI continues to shape Effective organizations recognize stewardship over traditional command real autonomy to pilot AI tools, shape business decisions, the ability to engage that transformation moves at the and control. Modern leaders are workflows, and actively influence with it ethically will be as essential as speed of trust. They practice frank coaches, catalysts, and role models transformation. technical proficiency. communication about the impact of AI for bold experimentation, creating the and create safe spaces for employees conditions for employees to build trust and leaders to admit what they don’t with AI tools and approaches. know, to try out new tools and ways of working, and to safely challenge assumptions as they learn (and fail forward) together. 2200 UUddeemmyy BBuussiinneessss // 22002266 GGlloobbaall LLeeaarrnniinngg && SSkkiillllss TTrreennddss RReeppoorrtt

[p.21] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion AI fluency is not just about tools, it’s about culture. In the next decade of rapid AI development, organizations that anchor adoption in process, measurement, and accountability will be better How Udemy customers are doing it prepared to navigate uncertainty, manage risk, and responsibly seize opportunities as they emerge.” Shingai Manjengwa Senior Director, Education and Development, Talent & Ecosystem Mila – Quebec Artificial Intelligence Institute +2x PepsiCo brought on Udemy Business Leadership Academy in a move to build 88% of employees agree that effective operational excellence. Their purpose was to leadership is critical to the success of create a “more agile and united procurement their organization’s initiatives. organization, one that could predict disruption, promotion rates of employees take it in its stride, and embed new efficiencies completing the procurement across various processes,” thereby improving leadership program the agility, resilience, and competitiveness of But only its procurement processes and teams. 55% felt confident in their management team’s ability to seize o pportunities Today, PepsiCo has run the program and mitigate AI’s risks. 35 times, providing learning to more than 1,200 employees, with completion rates of up to 98%. Promotion rates increased more than And only 2x for employees completing the program. 48% of employees believe their leaders are ready for the AI era. Udemy 21 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.22] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion 98% + How leaders build trust, agency, and ethics in an AI-powered world increase in upskilling in AI ethics & governance It was the 6th most consumed AI Lead by example and manage change. Establish clear, well-communicated topic on Udemy Business. Leaders, including executive teams and senior AI values and boundaries. leadership, visibly and transparently lead the way by Write and socialize your “AI code of conduct” using AI themselves, demonstrating that trying out for the entire organization. Make it a living set and adopting AI is a key behavior for all employees. of guidelines tied to organizational values. Train They should communicate actively on AI strategy and teams to recognize potential biases in AI outputs, Leaders must consciously shape how AI expectations as well as the changes AI is causing so safeguard user privacy, and understand how AI integrates into the organizational culture by that they are reinforced and top of mind for everyone in decisions are made. the organization. establishing rules and norms that preserve human creativity and connection while Create feedback loops. Give employees agency. leveraging AI’s capabilities. This means Engage leaders at every level to regularly ask, Create pathways for bottom-up innovation in AI listen, and then adapt strategy based on employee modeling thoughtful AI usage, celebrating workflow design and use-case development. Empower input, experience, and outcomes. innovative applications, and continuously teams to challenge and improve adopted solutions. reinforcing that AI serves human objectives, Invest in resilience and Develop leaders as coaches not the reverse.” psychological safety. and builders of trust. Train managers to respond to AI anxiety with Hugo Sarrazin Upskill managers on empathy, change management, empathy and concrete guidance; recognize and CEO of Udemy risk communication, and ethical decision-making. celebrate learning moments, not just outcomes. FastCompany 22 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.23] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion 2.4 If AI is your finish line, you’ve already lost the race 23 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.24] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion Adaptive skills 2.4 Adaptive skills enable individuals to remain agile and responsive in a constantly changing world, particularly as technologies and processes evolve. Transferable across contexts and industries, these skills are essential building blocks that empower people to excel in an AI-driven world, where humans focus on strategy and verification, rather If AI is your The final illusion to shatter is the idea than execution. Examples include skills like critical thinking, emotional resilience, and the ability to that AI transformation is the finish navigate ambiguity. finish line, line. It may be the most profound change in our work lifetimes, but it 4th Adaptive (soft) skills learning grew you’ve already won’t be the last. 25% YoY, placing it in the top 4 fastest fastest-growing communication In reality, AI is simply the most current and visible growing skills on Udemy Business. lost the race in a long line of transformative disruptions. If your organization prepares only for AI, you risk developing AI-focused skills, cultures, and True competitive advantage: leaders, and just in time to be overtaken by the Adaptability outlasts any technology next wave of change. The real competitive edge is permanent adaptability, fueled by what Udemy 38% now calls adaptive skills. These are skills like + growth in learning about decision-making, communication, collaboration, decision-making on Udemy critical thinking, and emotional intelligence. Business over the last year They have a shelf-life beyond any technological phenomenon, allowing employees to navigate the profound change that AI is bringing to work while preparing them for unforeseeable shifts 37% + growth in learning about in the future. Adaptability is not only a personal critical thinking on Udemy trait. It is an organizational capability built through Business over the last year developing these enduring skills and enforcing them through culture, routine, and leadership commitment. And it is the only solution for both AI itself and what comes after AI. 24 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.25] IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn KKeeyy TTrreennddss CCoonncclluussiioonn What leading organizations are doing to future-proof for what comes after AI Doubling down on developing adaptive skills Critical thinking Learning Resilience Innovation & judgment agility & ambiguity & creativity navigation enhancement As AI takes on routine “doing,” the Organizations (and employees) human role is to plan, prioritize, that thrive are those who can pivot, question, and verify the output, all skills unlearn, and relearn fast — regardless Psychological resilience and the Thinking outside the box is a key skill that become more, not less, valuable of what technology is hot this quarter. ability to operate amid uncertainty for innovative new growth strategies. in the automation age. Every employee Curiosity, experimentation, and rapid are now core business competencies. If large language models (LLMs) thrive needs strong contextual judgment, feedback loops accelerate capability Teams that can normalize ambiguity on synthesizing all of the existing data analytical capabilities, and ethical building and competitive advantage. outperform by adapting quickly and they have ingested, the thing they can’t understanding to validate and sustaining productive momentum. do as well as people is innovate new enhance AI output. ways of thinking and doing. 2255 UUddeemmyy BBuussiinneessss // 22002266 GGlloobbaall LLeeaarrnniinngg && SSkkiillllss TTrreennddss RReeppoorrtt

[p.26] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion Employees understand the value of adaptive skills How Udemy customers are doing it 84% of Gen Z workers consider soft skills critical to professional success. Udemy 40% of midcareer professionals are improving soft skills like communication and creativity. Udemy 100% Integrant achieved nearly 100% AI adoption following its training initiatives. To ensure that employees had the skills to be ready for not This strategic shift only AI but also to have the complementary adaptive skills needed for the next AI adoption following has positioned our transformative change, the company adopted upskilling programs organization to remain a learning matrix. The matrix is scalable to agile, competitive, and different levels of assessed competencies in AI and other technical and adaptive skills, resilient in the face of 50% offering a systematic approach to upskilling. ongoing changes in the workplace.” Integrant set target skills for each job title, curated Udemy training programs to close gaps, and implemented regular reassessment reduction in skills gaps for Peter Amir to ensure sustained growth. The matrix key competencies within Learning and Development Lead at Integrant became a strategic tool supporting six months Integrant’s vision of organizational agility, helping the company remain responsive to a dynamic market landscape. 26 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.27] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion 3.8x Get ready for what more innovative comes after AI Highly resilient and adaptable employees are 3.8x more innovative. McKinsey Make adaptability and lifelong learning Call out and reward versatility. your operational north star. Celebrate employees who pivot, cross-skill, and thrive through change. Build learning paths that develop not just expertise, but growth and change-readiness. Then establish key performance indicators (KPIs) and manager scorecards Keep learning systems as nimble as that measure these. your business. Regularly refresh content, methods, and learning Embed critical thinking and ambiguity culture to match emerging business priorities. navigation into every level of learning. Go beyond tests of knowledge to use real-world Start scanning — and preparing — scenarios and Role Plays. Ensure there is feedback that for work and life beyond AI. helps employees practice how to think critically and act meaningfully when the “right” path isn’t obvious. Integrate trendspotting, scenario planning, and reinvention as part of strategic learning and workforce planning. Enable leaders to reinforce skills development. Leaders should make upskilling and reskilling part of day-to-day work and coaching conversations, not just something touched on periodically in performance reviews and career development evaluations. 27 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.28] IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn KKeeyy TTrreennddss CCoonncclluussiioonn CONCLUSION 2288 UUddeemmyy BBuussiinneessss // 22002266 GGlloobbaall LLeeaarrnniinngg && SSkkiillllss TTrreennddss RReeppoorrtt

[p.29] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion 03 Adapting to AI disruption as practice for the next transformation The future is being rewritten in real success will be the ability to scale agency and ethical stewardship, while helping employees time. AI is no longer a distant promise develop resilience and judgment. It’s essential to or threat. It is the engine of growth cultivate the skills to navigate profound change, and the grammar of the modern both for the age of AI and whatever comes after AI. This requires developing a mindset, a framework, enterprise. and an approach to learning that fuels continuous transformation. But the defining challenge for leaders isn’t mastering a specific technology. It’s orchestrating Executives and employees alike should embrace the new workforce portfolio: employees leading what is uncomfortable about change, seeing each a fluid collaboration with AI models, agents, and disruption as practice for the next. The organizations compute power. The leaders won’t be those who that are ready to meet this moment are those pick the “right” model, but those who rebuild that will lean into permanent reinvention, putting how their business learns, decides, and ships themselves in a position to thrive and lead. Join change. Those who evolve their approach to skills them. Shift from treating upskilling as a nice-to- development through the Udemy learning system have to viewing it as the essential motor of your will benefit from the greatest adaptability, driving AI AI transformation, where a human-centered, AI- integration better and faster than the competition. powered workforce will shape the future of work. The force multipliers on the road to even greater 29 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report

[p.30] Introduction Key Trends Conclusion Data methodology For this report, we analyzed data from thousands of our customers around the world. We calculated total consumption by Udemy Business learners across all course topics for the year from July 1, 2024, to June 30, 2025. We calculated the percentage growth in consumption compared to the year from July 1, 2023, to June 30, 2024. The total consumption and surging ranking for the AI topics is also drawn from the About July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2025, time period. Udemy Business Udemy is an AI-powered skills acceleration platform transforming how companies and individuals across the world build the capabilities needed to thrive in a rapidly evolving workplace. Udemy Business provides enterprise skills development solutions to thousands of companies, including Ericsson, Samsung SDS America, On24, Tata Consultancy Services, The World Bank, and Volkswagen, to build agile, future-ready teams. Learn more at business.udemy.com 30 Udemy Business / 2026 Global Learning & Skills Trends Report